README.md, before:

# Hephaestus

A high-performance C++ framework for production-ready robotics development.

## Overview

Hephaestus is a C++ framework designed for deploying robotic systems in production environments. It provides essential, performance-critical functionalities while abstracting away common C++ complexities, allowing developers to focus on their robotics-specific implementation.

Unlike other robotics frameworks that prioritize rapid prototyping, Hephaestus emphasizes production-ready code with a focus on performance, stability, and simplicity.

### Design Philosophy

- **Production-First**: Features are added only if they improve production code quality through enhanced performance, stability, or simplicity
- **Focused Scope**: Concentrates on common infrastructure needs across robotic platforms while avoiding use-case specific implementations
- **C++ Abstraction**: Reduces cognitive load by handling complex C++ patterns and best practices automatically

### Core Features

#### Current Implementation

Hephaestus provides robust abstractions for fundamental robotics infrastructure:

- **Memory Management**
  - Automated memory handling
  - Memory pools for efficient allocation
  
- **Concurrency**
  - Thread pools
  - Parallelism primitives
  - Thread-safe containers for cross-thread data sharing

- **System Communication**
  - Inter-Process Communication (IPC)
  - Data serialization for communication and storage

- **Performance Optimization**
  - Real-time execution capabilities
  - Telemetry for system monitoring

## Project Status

> **Note**: Many features are currently under development. Please check the issue tracker or project boards for current status.

When should you use this over ROS? Click [here](doc/comparison_to_ros.md)!

### Scope Limitations

Hephaestus intentionally excludes the following to maintain focus and allow for use-case optimization:

- Data type definitions (images, point clouds, etc.)
- Visualization tools
- Geometric operations
- Autonomy algorithms
- Use-case specific implementations

This deliberate limitation allows teams to implement these features optimally for their specific robotics applications while leveraging Hephaestus's robust infrastructure.

## Dev Env
The best way to build Hephaestus is to do it inside the docker container provided in the `docker` folder. You can build and start the container with `make docker-up`.

If you use VS Code, run `make configure-attach-container` and then Command Palette (Ctrl+Shift+P) `Dev Containers: Attach to Running Container...` -> `/hephaestus-dev`

## Bazel
Bazel is the official tool to build Hephaestus.

### Commands
* Build:
  * `bazel build //modules/...`
  * You can also build a specific module or library by providing the path:
    * `bazel build //modules/ipc/...`
    * `bazel build //modules/ipc:zenoh_topic_list`
* Build with clang-tidy:
  * `bazel build //modules/... --config clang-tidy`
* Run tests:
  * `bazel test //modules/...`
* Format the code:
  * `bazel run :format` -> fixes the formatting errors
  * `bazel run :format.check` -> fails on error
* Generate `compile_commands.json`, for VS Code `clangd` tool:
  * `bazel run :refresh_compile_commands`
* Run binaries:
  * `bazel run //modules/ipc:zenoh_topic_list`, or
  * `./bazel-bin/modules/ipc/zenoh_topic_list`

### Folders
For more details see https://bazel.build/remote/output-directories

Bazel generates three folders in the workspace:
* `bazel-bin`
  * Contains the binaries and release artifacts like debians and packages
* `bazel-out`
  * Contains build artifacts, build and test logs
* `bazel-hephaestus`
  * Can be ignored


## CMake
The following sections contains all the information needed to use Hephaestus with CMake

### Compilation

Hephaestus uses CMake to build, the build infrastructure is copied and adapted from [grape](https://github.com/cvilas/grape).

To build it:
```bash
cd hephaestus
mkdir build && cd build
cmake --preset default ..
ninja all examples
```

To compile and run the unit test
```bash
ninja check
```

> TODO: add section on the different flags and options.

### Build system
You can use the build system of `hephaestus` in your own project by importing the CMake files and recreating the required folder structure.

Create the top level `CMakeLists.txt` as:
```cmake
cmake_minimum_required(VERSION 3.22.1)
project(my_project LANGUAGES CXX C)

set(CMAKE_CXX_STANDARD 20)
set(CMAKE_CXX_STANDARD_REQUIRED ON)

include(FetchContent)
FetchContent_Declare(
    hephaestus
    GIT_REPOSITORY "https://github.com/olympus-robotics/hephaestus.git"
    GIT_TAG "main"
)
FetchContent_GetProperties(hephaestus)
if(NOT hephaestus_POPULATED)
  FetchContent_Populate(hephaestus)
endif()

# If you want to use hephaestus toolchain add:
# set(CMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE ${hephaestus_SOURCE_DIR}/cmake/toolchains/toolchain_clang.cmake)

# Include the Cmake functions.
include(${hephaestus_SOURCE_DIR}/cmake/build.cmake)
```

Create the `modules` folder and add your modules. You can use the hephaestus script by calling:
```bash
cd modules
python3 ../build/_deps/hephaestus-src/cmake/create_module.py my_module
```

Create the `external` folder and add a `CMakeLists.txt` file as:
```cmake
cmake_minimum_required(VERSION 3.27.3)
project(my_project-external LANGUAGES C CXX)

include(${CMAKE_TEMPLATE_DIR}/external.cmake)

# Add your desired dependencies:
# add_cmake_dependency(
#     NAME hephaestus
#     GIT_REPOSITORY "https://github.com/olympus-robotics/hephaestus.git"
#     GIT_TAG "main"
#     CMAKE_ARGS -DBUILD_MODULES="utils"
# )
```

### Using Hephaestus
There are multiple ways to use Hephaestus in your repo.

#### Global installation
Install hephaestus in a known folder, e.g. `/install`. When you compile your project pass `-DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=/install` and in your CMakeLists.txt:

```cmake
find_package(hephaestus REQUIRED <component1> <component2>) # e.g. find_package(hephaestus REQUIRED ipc serdes)

add_library(my-lib ...)
target_link_libraries(my-lib
    PUBLIC hephaestus::ipc hephaestus::serdes
)
```

### Use Hephaestus CMake build system
Using Hephaestus build system build hephaestus together with your project:

```cmake
add_cmake_dependency(
    NAME hephaestus
    GIT_REPOSITORY "https://github.com/olympus-robotics/hephaestus.git"
    GIT_TAG "main"
    CMAKE_ARGS -DBUILD_MODULES="utils"
)
```

and in your library CMakeLists.txt:
```cmake
find_package(hephaestus REQUIRED <component1> <component2>) # e.g. find_package(hephaestus REQUIRED ipc serdes)

add_library(my-lib ...)
target_link_libraries(my-lib
    PUBLIC hephaestus::ipc hephaestus::serdes
)
```

### Include Hephaestus as a submodule
Add Hephaestus as a git submodule to your project (e.g. in `third_party/hephaestus`) and in the root CMakeLists.txt before adding your libraries add:

```cmake
set(BUILD_MODULES "ipc;serdes") # or `all` if you want to build all of it.
add_subdirectory(third_party/hephaestus)
```

if you are using Hephaestus build system for your project you need to backup the modules list to keep it separate between the Hephaestus ones and yours:


```cmake
set(hephaestus_SOURCE_DIR ${CMAKE_SOURCE_DIR}/third_party/hephaestus)

set(BUILD_MODULES_BAK ${BUILD_MODULES})
set(BUILD_MODULES "utils")
add_subdirectory(${hephaestus_SOURCE_DIR})

set(BUILD_MODULES ${BUILD_MODULES_BAK})
include(${hephaestus_SOURCE_DIR}/cmake/build.cmake)
```

## Notes

Initially this repo was supporting C++23, but to maximize compatibilty we reverted back to C++20.

When switching again back to C++23 it will be possible to remove `fmt` and `ranges-v3`. The transition will be easy, just rename `fmt::` -> `std::` and remove `fmt::formatter`.

## TODO
Hephaestus is under active development. The list of tasks to be carried out can be found under the [Hephaestus Masterplan](https://github.com/orgs/olympus-robotics/projects/2) project.

Commit message:

Update clang tidy script (#304)
# Description

Update clang_tidy invokation rule to the latest original commit.
Disable `-bugprone-reserved-identifier` as it was the longest check
running and doesn't really provide much value.

See Readme to run clang-tidy with profiling enabled

README.md, after:

# Hephaestus

A high-performance C++ framework for production-ready robotics development.

## Overview

Hephaestus is a C++ framework designed for deploying robotic systems in production environments. It provides essential, performance-critical functionalities while abstracting away common C++ complexities, allowing developers to focus on their robotics-specific implementation.

Unlike other robotics frameworks that prioritize rapid prototyping, Hephaestus emphasizes production-ready code with a focus on performance, stability, and simplicity.

### Design Philosophy

- **Production-First**: Features are added only if they improve production code quality through enhanced performance, stability, or simplicity
- **Focused Scope**: Concentrates on common infrastructure needs across robotic platforms while avoiding use-case specific implementations
- **C++ Abstraction**: Reduces cognitive load by handling complex C++ patterns and best practices automatically

### Core Features

#### Current Implementation

Hephaestus provides robust abstractions for fundamental robotics infrastructure:

- **Memory Management**
  - Automated memory handling
  - Memory pools for efficient allocation

- **Concurrency**
  - Thread pools
  - Parallelism primitives
  - Thread-safe containers for cross-thread data sharing

- **System Communication**
  - Inter-Process Communication (IPC)
  - Data serialization for communication and storage

- **Performance Optimization**
  - Real-time execution capabilities
  - Telemetry for system monitoring

## Project Status

> **Note**: Many features are currently under development. Please check the issue tracker or project boards for current status.

When should you use this over ROS? Click [here](doc/comparison_to_ros.md)!

### Scope Limitations

Hephaestus intentionally excludes the following to maintain focus and allow for use-case optimization:

- Data type definitions (images, point clouds, etc.)
- Visualization tools
- Geometric operations
- Autonomy algorithms
- Use-case specific implementations

This deliberate limitation allows teams to implement these features optimally for their specific robotics applications while leveraging Hephaestus's robust infrastructure.

## Dev Env
The best way to build Hephaestus is to do it inside the docker container provided in the `docker` folder. You can build and start the container with `make docker-up`.

If you use VS Code, run `make configure-attach-container` and then Command Palette (Ctrl+Shift+P) `Dev Containers: Attach to Running Container...` -> `/hephaestus-dev`

## Bazel
Bazel is the official tool to build Hephaestus.

### Commands
* Build:
  * `bazel build //modules/...`
  * You can also build a specific module or library by providing the path:
    * `bazel build //modules/ipc/...`
    * `bazel build //modules/ipc:zenoh_topic_list`
* Build with clang-tidy:
  * `bazel build //modules/... --config clang-tidy`
* Run tests:
  * `bazel test //modules/...`
* Format the code:
  * `bazel run :format` -> fixes the formatting errors
  * `bazel run :format.check` -> fails on error
* Generate `compile_commands.json`, for VS Code `clangd` tool:
  * `bazel run :refresh_compile_commands`
* Run binaries:
  * `bazel run //modules/ipc:zenoh_topic_list`, or
  * `./bazel-bin/modules/ipc/zenoh_topic_list`

#### Clang-tidy Profiling
It is possible to run clang-tidy with profiling enabled to see how long each check takes. To do that:
* in `clang_tidy.bzl` uncomment line `# args.add("--enable-check-profile")`
* in `run_clang_tidy.sh` comment current `trap` command and uncomment `# trap 'head -n 15 "$logfile" 1>&2' EXIT`

This will print stats for each files sorted by time.

### Folders
For more details see https://bazel.build/remote/output-directories

Bazel generates three folders in the workspace:
* `bazel-bin`
  * Contains the binaries and release artifacts like debians and packages
* `bazel-out`
  * Contains build artifacts, build and test logs
* `bazel-hephaestus`
  * Can be ignored


## CMake
The following sections contains all the information needed to use Hephaestus with CMake

### Compilation

Hephaestus uses CMake to build, the build infrastructure is copied and adapted from [grape](https://github.com/cvilas/grape).

To build it:
```bash
cd hephaestus
mkdir build && cd build
cmake --preset default ..
ninja all examples
```

To compile and run the unit test
```bash
ninja check
```

> TODO: add section on the different flags and options.

### Build system
You can use the build system of `hephaestus` in your own project by importing the CMake files and recreating the required folder structure.

Create the top level `CMakeLists.txt` as:
```cmake
cmake_minimum_required(VERSION 3.22.1)
project(my_project LANGUAGES CXX C)

set(CMAKE_CXX_STANDARD 20)
set(CMAKE_CXX_STANDARD_REQUIRED ON)

include(FetchContent)
FetchContent_Declare(
    hephaestus
    GIT_REPOSITORY "https://github.com/olympus-robotics/hephaestus.git"
    GIT_TAG "main"
)
FetchContent_GetProperties(hephaestus)
if(NOT hephaestus_POPULATED)
  FetchContent_Populate(hephaestus)
endif()

# If you want to use hephaestus toolchain add:
# set(CMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE ${hephaestus_SOURCE_DIR}/cmake/toolchains/toolchain_clang.cmake)

# Include the Cmake functions.
include(${hephaestus_SOURCE_DIR}/cmake/build.cmake)
```

Create the `modules` folder and add your modules. You can use the hephaestus script by calling:
```bash
cd modules
python3 ../build/_deps/hephaestus-src/cmake/create_module.py my_module
```

Create the `external` folder and add a `CMakeLists.txt` file as:
```cmake
cmake_minimum_required(VERSION 3.27.3)
project(my_project-external LANGUAGES C CXX)

include(${CMAKE_TEMPLATE_DIR}/external.cmake)

# Add your desired dependencies:
# add_cmake_dependency(
#     NAME hephaestus
#     GIT_REPOSITORY "https://github.com/olympus-robotics/hephaestus.git"
#     GIT_TAG "main"
#     CMAKE_ARGS -DBUILD_MODULES="utils"
# )
```

### Using Hephaestus
There are multiple ways to use Hephaestus in your repo.

#### Global installation
Install hephaestus in a known folder, e.g. `/install`. When you compile your project pass `-DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=/install` and in your CMakeLists.txt:

```cmake
find_package(hephaestus REQUIRED <component1> <component2>) # e.g. find_package(hephaestus REQUIRED ipc serdes)

add_library(my-lib ...)
target_link_libraries(my-lib
    PUBLIC hephaestus::ipc hephaestus::serdes
)
```

### Use Hephaestus CMake build system
Using Hephaestus build system build hephaestus together with your project:

```cmake
add_cmake_dependency(
    NAME hephaestus
    GIT_REPOSITORY "https://github.com/olympus-robotics/hephaestus.git"
    GIT_TAG "main"
    CMAKE_ARGS -DBUILD_MODULES="utils"
)
```

and in your library CMakeLists.txt:
```cmake
find_package(hephaestus REQUIRED <component1> <component2>) # e.g. find_package(hephaestus REQUIRED ipc serdes)

add_library(my-lib ...)
target_link_libraries(my-lib
    PUBLIC hephaestus::ipc hephaestus::serdes
)
```

### Include Hephaestus as a submodule
Add Hephaestus as a git submodule to your project (e.g. in `third_party/hephaestus`) and in the root CMakeLists.txt before adding your libraries add:

```cmake
set(BUILD_MODULES "ipc;serdes") # or `all` if you want to build all of it.
add_subdirectory(third_party/hephaestus)
```

if you are using Hephaestus build system for your project you need to backup the modules list to keep it separate between the Hephaestus ones and yours:


```cmake
set(hephaestus_SOURCE_DIR ${CMAKE_SOURCE_DIR}/third_party/hephaestus)

set(BUILD_MODULES_BAK ${BUILD_MODULES})
set(BUILD_MODULES "utils")
add_subdirectory(${hephaestus_SOURCE_DIR})

set(BUILD_MODULES ${BUILD_MODULES_BAK})
include(${hephaestus_SOURCE_DIR}/cmake/build.cmake)
```

## Notes

Initially this repo was supporting C++23, but to maximize compatibilty we reverted back to C++20.

When switching again back to C++23 it will be possible to remove `fmt` and `ranges-v3`. The transition will be easy, just rename `fmt::` -> `std::` and remove `fmt::formatter`.

## TODO
Hephaestus is under active development. The list of tasks to be carried out can be found under the [Hephaestus Masterplan](https://github.com/orgs/olympus-robotics/projects/2) project.
