modules/websocket_bridge/README.md, before:

# README: websocket_bridge

## Overview

This module offers a websocket interface to hephaestus, enabling foxglove studio or a similar websocket-capable client to connect to hephaestus nodes and:
  - Publish and subscribe to hephaestus topics
  - Trigger hephaestus service calls
  - Monitor the hephaestus node graph (Foxglove has a built in node graph visualizer)

## Build

To build the WebSocket bridge, execute the following command:

```bash
bazel build //modules/websocket_bridge:app
```

## Running the WebSocket Bridge

To run the WebSocket bridge, execute the following command:

```bash
bazel run //modules/websocket_bridge::app -- -c <path to config file>
```

## Bridge Structure

```mermaid
classDiagram
class WsBridge {
    - WsBridgeConfig
    - WsBridgeState
    - IpcGraph
    - IpcInterface

    - Foxglove WebSocket Server
    
    + start()
    + stop()

    + callback__WsServer__*()
    + callback__IpcGraph__*()
    + callback__Ipc__*()
}

class WsBridgeConfig {
    - WS Server Config
    - IPC Config
    - Topic/Service Whitelists/Blacklists
}

class WsBridgeState {
   - Map: IPC Topics <-> WS Channels
   - Map: WS Channels <-> WS Clients
   - Map: IPC Services <-> WS Services
   - Map: WS Services <-> WS Clients

   + add/remove/has...()
}

class IpcGraph {
    - Topic/Type Database
    - Discovery

    + start()
    + stop()

    + callback__EndPointInfoUpdate()

    + add/remove/hasPublisher()
    + add/remove/hasSubscriber()
    + add/remove/hasTopic()

    + add/remove/hasServiceServer()
    + add/remove/hasServiceClient()
    + add/remove/hasService()
}

class IpcInterface {
    - Subscribers
    - Publishers
    - ServiceClients

    + start()
    + stop()

    + add/remove/hasSubscriber()
    + add/remove/hasPublisher()

    + callService()
    + callServiceAsync()

    + callback__ServiceResponse()
}

class Foxglove WebSocket Server {
    - State/Clients
    - Config

    + start()
    + stop()

    + add/removeChannels()    
    + sendMessage()

    + add/removeServices()    
    + sendServiceResponse()
    + sendServiceError()

    + updateConnectionGraph()    
}

WsBridge --> WsBridgeConfig
WsBridge --> WsBridgeState
WsBridge --> IpcGraph
WsBridge --> IpcInterface
WsBridge --> Foxglove WebSocket Server
```

## TODOs

- [ ] Fix deadlock in IPCGraph when shutting down
- [ ] Add support for client-side topic publishing
- [ ] Implement async service calls (needs hephaestus to support async service calls)
- [ ] Test advanced websocket interface functions:
  - [ ] TLS
  - [ ] Whitelisting/blacklisting
  - [ ] Compression

Commit message:

add doc for test clients

modules/websocket_bridge/README.md, after:

# Module - WebSocket Bridge

## Overview

This module offers a websocket interface to hephaestus, enabling foxglove studio or a similar websocket-capable client to connect to hephaestus communication and:
  - Publish and subscribe to hephaestus topics
  - Trigger hephaestus service calls
  - Monitor the hephaestus node graph (Foxglove has a built in node graph visualizer)

## Build

To build the WebSocket bridge, execute the following command:

```bash
bazel build //modules/websocket_bridge:app
```

## Running the WebSocket Bridge

To run the WebSocket bridge, execute the following command:

```bash
bazel run //modules/websocket_bridge::app -- -c <path to config file>
```

## Bridge Structure

```mermaid
classDiagram
class WsBridge {
    - WsBridgeConfig
    - WsBridgeState
    - IpcGraph
    - IpcInterface

    - Foxglove WebSocket Server
    
    + start()
    + stop()

    + callback__WsServer__*()
    + callback__IpcGraph__*()
    + callback__Ipc__*()
}

class WsBridgeConfig {
    - WS Server Config
    - IPC Config
    - Topic/Service Whitelists/Blacklists
}

class WsBridgeState {
   - Map: IPC Topics <-> WS Channels
   - Map: WS Channels <-> WS Clients
   - Map: IPC Services <-> WS Services
   - Map: WS Services <-> WS Clients

   + add/remove/has...()
}

class IpcGraph {
    - Topic/Type Database
    - Discovery

    + start()
    + stop()

    + callback__EndPointInfoUpdate()

    + add/remove/hasPublisher()
    + add/remove/hasSubscriber()
    + add/remove/hasTopic()

    + add/remove/hasServiceServer()
    + add/remove/hasServiceClient()
    + add/remove/hasService()
}

class IpcInterface {
    - Subscribers
    - Publishers
    - ServiceClients

    + start()
    + stop()

    + add/remove/hasSubscriber()
    + add/remove/hasPublisher()

    + callService()
    + callServiceAsync()

    + callback__ServiceResponse()
}

class Foxglove WebSocket Server {
    - State/Clients
    - Config

    + start()
    + stop()

    + add/removeChannels()    
    + sendMessage()

    + add/removeServices()    
    + sendServiceResponse()
    + sendServiceError()

    + updateConnectionGraph()    
}

WsBridge --> WsBridgeConfig
WsBridge --> WsBridgeState
WsBridge --> IpcGraph
WsBridge --> IpcInterface
WsBridge --> Foxglove WebSocket Server
```

## Test Clients

### Test Client - Services

This client tests the websocket bridge by checking the advertised services and then calling the first one many times while tracking the response times.

```bash
bazel run //modules/websocket_bridge:test_client__services ws://localhost:8765
```

### Test Client - Topics
This client tests the websocket bridge by subscribing to all topics and then advertising mirror topics and pinging back the received messages to the bridge.

```bash
bazel run //modules/websocket_bridge:test_client__topics ws://localhost:8765
```

## TODOs

- [ ] Fix deadlock in IPCGraph when shutting down
- [ ] Add support for client-side topic publishing
- [ ] Implement async service calls (needs hephaestus to support async service calls)
- [ ] Test advanced websocket interface functions:
  - [ ] TLS
  - [ ] Whitelisting/blacklisting
  - [ ] Compression
